When Scorpio and Aquarius make a love match, it is a fusion of two very different life philosophies and many very different needs. There is much chance for friction here. Where Scorpio faces their inner emotional world directly and with an intense energy, thinking deeply about the more hidden undercurrents of life, Aquarius takes that same sort of energy and turns it outward. With their unusual, idealistic and, above all else, very social outlook on life, Aquarius seems an odd choice for the more introverted Scorpio. Aquarius needs a crowd to feel stimulated, and they’re always looking around the room for the next interesting person to get to know. Scorpio, on the other hand, desires engaging, probing and very intimate time with their romantic mates. This pair may seem to have very little in common, but they both have such strong wills that, when focused on their relationship, can get them what they need and want.

Both Scorpio and Aquarius can be uncooperative and opinionated: They like things to go their way, no questions asked! For this love match, though, ‘their ways’ are very dissimilar. Scorpio is inquisitive, digging deeply into the hidden meaning of things, always asking questions and wanting to know where things are going and why. Aquarius is progressive and affable yet does not enjoy detail. Scorpio may be enticed by their differences, as Aquarius shows them new, exterior worlds but may end up frustrated trying to get answers from this eccentric enigma. Aquarius does not welcome possessiveness, either, preferring to belong to the world rather than one single person. But a stinging Scorpion can be fiercely possessive, and they require more attention than an Aquarian might be able to give. If Aquarius slows down and pays attention, they may find the devotion Scorpio provides to be a great support.

The Planets Mars and Pluto rule Scorpio, and the Planets Saturn and Uranus rule Aquarius. Mars is a revolutionary, aggressive and spirited masculine energy, and Pluto enlightens these impulses and adds a rebirthing, cyclical quality. Saturn is a cool, contained energy, and Uranus is about all things different and unusual. Mars is emotional, reacting without thinking things through; such is the nature of Scorpio. Saturn demands of Aquarius much hard work and discipline, while Uranus gives them that forward thinking mind. A gentle Scorpio lover, careful not to tether an Aquarius in too tightly can teach their mate about a life based on emotional intuition, one that quiets the intellect sometimes in favor of physical sensation. Understanding Aquarians can teach their serious Scorpio mates to calm down, to detach themselves from uncontrollable situations and to reevaluate their goals if they get off course.

Scorpio is a Water Sign, and Aquarius is an Air Sign. Air is about the intellect, so Aquarius tackles life as one chance to grow and explore after another, while Scorpio is more analytical. Scorpio looks for purpose, and Aquarius seeks stimulation. These love mates have trouble understanding one another’s origin of thought. Confrontations arise is Scorpio’s possessiveness gets the better of them or if Aquarius seems too cool and flippant and denies Scorpio emotional reassurance. Both need to learn that they view the world in different ways and they should celebrate and laugh at their differences.

Scorpio and Aquarius are both Fixed Signs. Both can be unyielding, dogmatic and persevering. If they have a plan, they’ll stick to it until their efforts are rewarded. Once they have made up their minds that they are good mates for one another, they will never be discouraged from maintaining the relationship. But they may have such contradictory approaches to life that their relationship gets more difficult than it is pleasurable. If they believe in the value of the relationship, they will be able to overcome differences.

What’s the best thing about the Scorpio-Aquarius relationship? Their capacity for success in their synergy. Both Signs have very powerful personalities, so neither will openly dominate the other. Once they can appreciate their differences, come together and agree on their individual roles within the relationship, the results can be intensely gratifying.