Seven years ago, Debra and Darren Moss gave up their 800-square-foot rent-stabilized one-bedroom near Sutton Place.
Mr. Moss wanted a grill and a car, both difficult to accommodate in the city. Many of their friends had already left town, “and we found ourselves kind of bored in Manhattan,” Mr. Moss said, “which is why we thought maybe we should look somewhere else.”
Outbid on a two-bedroom co-op in Park Slope,Brooklyn, they checked out the suburb of Larchmont, N.Y., where they thought they would get more space for their money. There they bought a three-bedroom, three-bathroom townhouse in a small condominium complex for $717,000. Ethan, now 6, arrived, followed by Julia, 3.
The Mosses, who met as students at Binghamton University, both walked to the Metro-North station and commuted to Manhattan, where Mr. Moss works in finance and Ms. Moss is a business consultant. Both are in their mid-30s.
 FOLLOW
The Hunt
Tag along on a search for a New York City home.
		A Brooklyn Rental for Sisters and Their Families AUG 6    
		Permanence on the Upper West Side JUL 23    
		A Jackson Heights Apartment Courtesy of a Kind Aunt JUL 16    
		Finding ‘Slight Suburbia’ in Stamford, Conn. JUL 10    
		An Upper East Side Apartment Hunt Goes Full Circle JUL 2    
See More »
In time, the Mosses found themselves wanting a fourth bedroom for guests, a basement for storage and a small yard. With no good play area in the townhouse, “the living room was the everything room,” Ms. Moss said.
Photo


LARCHMONT A Dutch colonial had the requisite four bedrooms, even if one was on the small side. But the house failed the walk-to-station test.
Credit
Susan Fisher Plotner for The New York Times
A year and a half ago, they began the hunt for a single-family house in Larchmont, which they loved. They knew their top price, in the low $900,000s, was low for the area.
Mr. Moss heard that a 1925 Dutch colonial was about to hit the market. He thought they could get a good, broker-free deal in the low $800,000s.
But the place had its drawbacks. One of the four bedrooms was more of an office or a nursery. The half-bath downstairs was tiny. The kitchen was outdated. And they would not be able to walk to the train.
“I was scared of becoming part of that suburban culture where everything you do revolves around driving,” Ms. Moss said. “There were houses coming on the market that were so far away we would need another car.”
He liked the Dutch colonial more than she did. They moved on.
The house was later listed for $819,000 and sold quickly for $928,000.
Next up was a 1931 Tudor that they liked a lot. In Larchmont Village and fully updated, it was listed for $899,000.
“We thought we were being really smart to put in a bid for full asking price,” Ms. Moss said.
Photo


LARCHMONT A Tudor-style house in good shape was just about right. But bidding the asking price got the prospective buyers nowhere. 
Credit
Susan Fisher Plotner for The New York Times
All interested parties were asked to submit a best and final offer. Theirs was $910,000; the house sold for $999,999.
“That was a little heartbreaking,” she said.
At around this time, the couple enlisted the help of France M. Tucker, a saleswoman at Houlihan Lawrence who had recently sold a townhouse in their complex.
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story

Few houses met their requirements. They heard about a foreclosure on a 1925 Tudor, but Ms. Moss found it in “scary condition, with parts of the ceiling hanging down.” It was listed for $730,000 and sold for $710,000, then renovated and re-listed nearly a year later for almost $1.2 million.
At a 1937 colonial, a large rock or a root had pushed up the floor of the attached garage. “You couldn’t drive a car into the garage,” Ms. Moss said.
Meanwhile, Ethan started kindergarten. Now, the family was geographically restricted to his school district.
By last fall, “we were pretty soured on the whole thing,” Mr. Moss said. They decided to “stay where we are and live our life happily.” The couple all but abandoned the search.
Last winter, Ms. Tucker contacted them about a well-situated 1924 Tudor house, listed for $949,000.
Photo


LARCHMONT Another Tudor popped up. Three of the four bedrooms were small, but their beds would fit. And the location was great. 
Credit
Susan Fisher Plotner for The New York Times
At first, because only one exterior photo was posted, Mr. Moss assumed it was in bad shape, possibly even a tear-down. He could see no reason to go look.
Then, more pictures appeared online; the property looked promising. “We decided to divide and conquer,” Ms. Moss said, with each taking a turn at braving an ice storm to attend an open house while the other watched the children.
The two-story house had three small top-floor bedrooms, a fourth bedroom in the finished basement, and a large living room with a cathedral ceiling and an interior Juliet balcony. There was also a one-car garage and a deck for the grill.
In spite of the weather, the open house was packed. Ms. Moss listened to the chatter. Some people were interested in much more expensive houses. Others said this one was a stretch, at the top of their price range. Still others said the bedrooms were too small.
But both Mosses liked it, although they returned with a measuring tape to confirm that their beds would fit into the rooms. “They knew the limitations of the properties under $1 million, and they weren’t looking for the moon,” Ms. Tucker said. This one “was right around the corner from their townhouse, so they already felt that they were home.”
Having listened to the buzz at the open house, the couple felt safe bidding below the listed price. They bought the place for $937,500, and arrived in the spring, thrilled by the additional space and that they were able to maintain their routine — same commute, same stores, same school, same grill.
Ms. Tucker listed their townhouse for $649,000, selling it for $700,000.
“We took a small loss,” Mr. Moss said. Their timing — near the top of the market — for buying the townhouse had been unfortunate.
Though most neighbors have a landscaping service, Mr. Moss enjoys maintaining the small yard. He cuts the lawn with his Fiskars manual push mower.
People stop at the corner stop sign “for an extra-long time if I’m mowing,” he said. “I’ve had people get out and ask to try it.”
